with less ice it means harder time to
polar bears and they will have to find
new different sources of food and that
may very well mean that it brings them
closer to people living and working in
the Arctic
so our relationship with these huge
predators may well become more trouble
with the conditions so bad this year
I want to know whether polar bears have
been driven closer to humans in search
of food there are a few places on
Svalbard where people live year round
one of them is the Polish Research
Station at horn esand they've had bears
visit them this year but no fatal
run-ins thanks to tried and tested polar
bear warning system Lilliana cos Lincoln
Ave Road has worked at the base for
almost a year
if a polar bear walks walks in the dogs
start barking and skip do they scare off
most times dogs like Lola bark as soon
as they get a whiff of a beer this gives
the researchers time to come up with a
flare gun and scare it off for Lola here
how close has she been to a polar bear
well she was attacked three years ago
was she yes she had some stitches on her
after she was attacked by the polar bear
did her attitude change towards him was
she more scared no she just got to know
brave just only a job yes from the polar
bears that you've seen him come through
here have you noticed that some are more
curious that they do have different
personalities yeah some some are scared
once and they go away and some are
really just so sorry so it's so hungry I
do think it's great the way that the dog
senses are used to keep people safe from
polar bears they'll get an excellent
hearing fantastic sense of smell and
there's absolutely no technology in the
world that can detect polar bears as
good as a dog can
it's a small sign of hope there are ways
to keep both people and polar bears safe
you